+++
title = "July Update"
author = "Carol Jean"
image = "https =//mcusercontent.com/19a07466c3b229babf6237ffc/images/67c938c5-6646-f8bc-ef8a-b43e8945b710.jpg"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["ministry", "life", "prayer"]
+++

Here’s an update on what’s going on in our ministry with Wycliffe Bible Translators. 

## Serving Bible translation teams
Steve has been making good progress on the translation guidebook, Translators Notes, for Exodus. This is a resource in simple English to help translation teams around the world find the best ways to express the meaning in their own languages. Some of his work is already available electronically for teams to use.

The Etulo language team in Nigeria has asked Steve to do the quality check for their translation of Genesis. He looks forward to working remotely with them again in the coming months. You may recall that Steve did the quality check for their final books of the New Testament last year. 

Seeking to fill vital roles in the work of Bible translation
Carol Jean’s team, Global Workforce Strategies, is nearing the end of a departmental reorganization. She will take on new duties as an admin assistant for talent acquisition (finding new people to fill vital roles in Wycliffe), while continuing some of her previous duties. Her department needs several more members to do their jobs most effectively.

As part of her role, she has interviewed several people interested in working with Wycliffe. One of her bigger jobs now is managing logistics for an in-house training conference in September. 

## Family updates
In April Carol Jean was in Wisconsin to help her mother, Joan Michaelson, after her second knee replacement surgery. It has been a hard recovery for her, but she is making progress. In June we celebrated Joan’s 90th birthday along with 85 friends and family members.

We will be welcoming a new granddaughter (Adam’s second child) in November. Their family lives in Virginia. We enjoy visits with our daughter, Erin, and her family (2 children), who live in our town.

## Praise God…
- That June’s Explore Bible Translation event for potential new missionaries was a success. Several of the 15 participants are taking steps to work with Wycliffe.
- For good progress for Steve and his team as they write Translators Notes.
- For a good celebration of Carol Jean’s mom’s 90th birthday. We rejoice in how God has blessed us and others through her over the years. 

## Please pray for…
- The Etulo team in Nigeria as they work with Steve remotely to quality check their book of Genesis in the coming months. Pray that the Lord would use Steve to help them improve the translation and find the best ways to express the meaning.
- The Explore Bible Translation course in Colorado the week of July 31st with 17 participants. Pray that it would move people closer to joining Wycliffe.
- For many more people to join the mission to reach the Bibleless people of the world with God’s Word, both in the USA and overseas. Pray for God to fill the personnel needs on Carol Jean’s team.
- Health and strength for Carol Jean’s parents, David & Joan, including full recovery from her knee surgery.
- Safe arrival of a healthy granddaughter in November.

We’re grateful to God for your faithful partnership with this ministry through your prayers and donations. You are making a vital difference in the work of bringing God’s Word to all people in the languages they understand best. Thank you!

God bless you all.

Steve & Carol Jean Gallagher
